---
layout: page
title:  "Hello World Example"
categories: [dev]
---

[Overview](#overview)

[Prerequisites](#prerequisites)

[Hello World Using the Kura Logger](#hello-world-using-the-kura-logger)

* [Create Hello World Plug-in](#create-hello-world-plug-in)

* [Add Dependencies to Manifest](#add-dependencies-to-manifest)

* [Create Java Class](#create-java-class)

* [Resolve Dependencies](#resolve-dependencies)

* [Create Component Class](#create-component-class)

[Deploying the Plug-in](#deploying-the-plug-in)

* [Export the OSGi Bundle](#export-the-osgi-bundle)

* [Create a Deployment Package](#create-a-deployment-package)


## Overview

This section provides a simple example of how to create a Kura “Hello
World” OSGi project using Eclipse. With this example, you will learn how
to perform the following functions:

* Create a plugin project

* Consume the Kura Logger service

* Write an OSGi Activator

* Export a single OSGi bundle (plug-in)

* Create a Deployment Package

## Prerequisites

[Setting up the Kura Development Environment](kura-setup.html)

## Hello World Using the Kura Logger

### Create Hello World Plug-in

In Eclipse, create a new Plug-in project by selecting **File | New |
Project**. Select **Plug-in Development | Plug-in Project** and click
**Next**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image1.png)

Your screen should display the New Plug-in Project dialog box as shown
in the following screen capture. Enter your project a name, such as
“org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi”, in the appropriate field. Under
Target Platform, ensure that the **an OSGi framework** option button is
selected and set the variable to **standard** as shown below. You can
also (optionally) add projects to a working set. To continue, click
**Next**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image2.png)

In the next New Plug-in Project menu (shown below), change the Name
field to a descriptive name, such as “Hello World Example with Logger”.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image3.png)

Also, verify that the Execution Environment list is set to match the
Java JVM version running on the target device (**JavaSE-1.6** or
**JavaSE-1.7**). To determine the JVM version running on the target
device, log in to its administrative console and enter the command

    java –version

Finally, <u>un</u>check the **Generate an activator, a Java class that
controls the plug-in’s life cycle** option button. For the purposes of
this example, a single class will be used. An Activator class will not
be created; instead, OSGi Declarative Services will be used to start and
stop the bundle.

Click **Finish**.

If the Open Associated Perspective pop-up window (shown below) appears
for adding Plug-ins and Error Log views, select Yes or No depending on
your development requirements.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image4.png)

You should see the new project in the My Projects working set in the
Package Explorer (or Project Explorer). Also, you will see the
MANIFEST.MF was automatically opened in the Manifest Editor. An OSGi
bundle is a regular Java .jar file that contains Java code and resources
and a custom Manifest and an Activator.

### Add Dependencies to Manifest

First, you will use the Manifest Editor in Eclipse to add some
dependencies. Click the **Dependencies** tab at the bottom of the editor
screen and then click the **Automated Management of Dependencies**
heading to expand it.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image5.png)

Under Automated Management of Dependencies, click **Add**. In the Select
a Plug-in field, enter **org.eclipse.osgi.services**. Select the plug-in
name and click **OK**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image6.png)

Note that this operation is very much like adding standalone jars to the
buildpath by including the ‘-cp’ argument to javac. However, in this
case you are telling Eclipse where to find these dependencies the “OSGi
way”, so it is aware of them at compile time. Click **Add** again and
use the same procedure to add the following dependency:

-   slf4j.api

You should now see the list of dependencies. Save changes to the
Manifest.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image7.png)

### Create Java Class

Now you are ready to start writing a simple Java class. Right-click the
**org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi** project. Select **New |
Class**. The New Java Class window appears as shown below. Set the
Source folder to **org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi/src**. Set the
Package field to **org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi**, set the Name
field to **HelloOsgi**, and then click **Finish**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image8.png)

Write the following code for the new class. You can copy and paste the
code provided below into your newly created Java class file.

```java
package org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi;

public class HelloOsgi {

    private static final Logger s_logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(HelloOsgi.class);

    private static final String APP_ID = "org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi";

    protected void activate(ComponentContext componentContext) {

        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has started!");

        s_logger.debug(APP_ID + ": This is a debug message.");

    }

    protected void deactivate(ComponentContext componentContext) {

        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has stopped!");

    }

}
```

The activate() method is the entry point when the bundle in started. The
deactivate() method is the entry point when the bundle is stopped.

Notice the use of the private LoggerFactory.getLogger() method. If the
LoggerFactory method is present (running) in the OSGi framework and your
hello_osgi bundle is started, your activate method is called, and you
can simply access the service by calling the getLogger() method.

One convenient feature of Eclipse, auto-completion, is worth mentioning
here. If you type ‘s_logger.’ (instance name of the
“LoggerFactory.getLogger” method) and stop after the period, it will
show you a list of methods implemented in that class. The examples above
show two different methods used for logging messages. Logger methods
include: “error”, “warn”, “info”, “debug”, and “trace”, which represent
increasingly lower (more detailed) levels of log information. Logger
levels should generally be used to represent the following conditions:

* ERROR - A serious problem has occurred that requires attention from
    the system administrator.

* WARNING - An action occurred or a condition was discovered that
    should be reviewed and may require action before an error occurs. It
    may also be used for transient issues.

* INFO - A report of a normal action or event. This could be a user
    operation, such as "login completed", or an automatic operation,
    such as a log file rotation.

* DEBUG - A debug message used for troubleshooting or performance
    monitoring. It typically contains detailed event data including
    things an application developer would need to know.

* TRACE - A fairly detailed output of diagnostic logging, such as
    actual bytes of a particular message being examined.

### Resolve Dependencies

At this point, there will be errors in your code because of unresolved
imports.

Select the menu **Source | Organize Imports** to resolve these errors.
Because you added the “org.slf4j” to your dependency list, you will be
prompted to choose one of two potential sources for importing the
“Logger” class. Select **org.slf4j.Logger** and click **Finish**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image9.png)

Now the errors in the class should have been resolved. Save the
HelloOsgi class.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image10.png)

The complete set of code (with import statements) is shown below.

```java
package org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi;

import org.osgi.service.component.ComponentContext;

import org.slf4j.Logger;

import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;

public class HelloOsgi {

    private static final Logger s_logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(HelloOsgi.class);

    private static final String APP_ID = "org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi";

    protected void activate(ComponentContext componentContext) {

        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has started!");

        s_logger.debug(APP_ID + ": This is a debug message.");

    }

    protected void deactivate(ComponentContext componentContext) {

        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has stopped!");

    }

}
```

For more information on using the Simple Logging Facade for Java
(slf4j), see the [Logger
API](http://www.slf4j.org/apidocs/org/slf4j/Logger.html).

Switch back to the Manifest Editor. Under Automated Management of
Dependencies, ensure the **Import-Package** option button is selected.
Click the **add dependencies** link to automatically add packages to the
dependencies list based on the “import” statements in your example code.
Save changes to the Manifest again.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image11.png)

### Create Component Class

Right-click the example project and select **New | Other**. From the
wizard, select **Plug-in Development | Component Definition** and click
**Next**.

{% include alerts.html message="This option is available only if the Plug-in 
Development Environment (PDE) is installed in Eclipse (plugins can be 
installed into Eclipse IDE by searching the name in the **Eclipse Marketplace**
under the **Help** menu)." %}

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image12.png)

In the Class field of the New Component Definition window shown below,
click **Browse.**

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image13.png)

Enter the name of your newly created class in the Select entries field.
In this case, type the word “hello”, and you will see a list of matching
items. Select the **HelloOsgi** class and click **OK**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image14.png)

In the Enter or select the parent folder field of the New Component
Definition window, add "/OSGI-INF" to the existing entry (e.g.,
org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi/OSGI-INF). Then click **Finish**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image15.png)

After the Component class has been created, it will open in the
Workspace. In the Overview tab, the Name and Class point to our Java
class. Set the Activate field to **activate** and set the Deactivate
field to **deactivate**. Doing so tells the component where these OSGi
activation methods are located. Then save the Component class definition
file.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image16.png)

## Deploying the Plug-in

The next few sections describe how to create a stand-alone JAR file as a
deployable OSGI plug-in and how to create an installable Deployment
Package.

An OSGi bundle is a Java archive file containing Java code, resources,
and a Manifest.

A Deployment Package is a set of resources grouped into a single package
file that may be deployed in the OSGi framework through the Deployment
Admin service and may contain one or more bundles, configuration
objects, etc.

### Export the OSGi Bundle

Your bundle can be built as a stand-alone OSGi plug-in.

To do so, right-click the project and select the **Export** menu. This
is equivalent to running javac on your project. From the wizard, select
**Plug-in Development | Deployable plug-ins and fragments** and click
**Next**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image17.png)

Under Available Plug-ins and Fragments of the Export window, ensure the
newly created plug-in is selected. Under Destination, select the
**Directory** option button and use the **Browse** button to select an
appropriate place to save the JAR file on the local file system.

NOTE: During the deployment process that is described in the following
section, you will need to remember the location where this JAR file is
saved.

Click **Finish**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image18.png)

This will create a JAR file in the selected directory (e.g.,
/home/joe/myPlugins/plugins/org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi_1.0.0.jar).

### Create a Deployment Package

Rather than creating a stand-alone plug-in, you can also create a
Deployment Package that contains multiple bundles, configuration
elements, etc. that can be deployed into an OSGi framework. In this
example, you will simply create a Deployment Package containing the
“hello_osgi” bundle. This step requires mToolkit to be installed. (See
[Kura Setup](kura-setup.html) for instructions on setting up the
Eclipse development environment.)

Right-click the project and select **New | Folder**. Select the
**org.eclipse.kura.example.hello_osgi** project and enter a folder
named “resources”.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image19.png)

Then repeat this step to create a folder named “dp” under the resources
folder. The resources/dp folder will be used to store the Deployment
Package.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image20.png)

Select **File | New | Other**. Select **OSGi | Deployment Package
Definition** and click **Next**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image21.png)

Ensure that the Target folder field of the New dpp file window is set to
the **/*[project_name]*/resources/dp** folder. In the File name field,
enter the name for the new Deployment Package file to create, such as
“hello_osgi”. A version number can also be entered in the Version
field. Then click **Finish**.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image22.png)

Under the resources/dp folder in your project, verify that the
***[filename]*.dpp** file was created. This is a Deployment Package
Project that provides information needed to create the Deployment
Package, such as its output directory, ant build file, etc.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image23.png)

Select the **Bundles** tab and then click **New**. In the Bundle Path
column, select the browse icon. Browse to the
bundle’s JAR file [created earlier](#export-the-osgi-bundle). Select the
file and click **Open**. Doing so should populate the remaining columns
as needed.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image24.png)

Save changes to the deployment package file.

In the resources/dp folder, right-click the **.dpp** file. Select
**Quick Build**. A new *[filename]*.dp file will be created in the same
directory. This is the final Deployment Package that can be installed on
a remote target system.

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/hello_example/media/image25.png)

In conclusion, you were able to create a new bundle from scratch, write
the Java code and Activator, modify the Manifest, and build the plug-in
and/or Deployment Package that can be used in a Kura environment.

The next steps will be to test your code in an Emulation mode and/or to
deploy your code to a target system running Kura. See [Testing and
Deploying Bundles](deploying-bundles.html) to continue with those
steps.
