# Configurable Application

## Overview

This section provides a simple example of how to create an OSGi bundle
that implements the ConfigurableComponent interface in Kura. This bundle
will interact with the Kura ConfigurationService via the
ConfigurableComponent interface. It also uses the MQTT services in Kura
to connect to the Cloud, which allows for a local configuration
mechanism using a Web user-interface (UI). In this example, you will
learn how to perform the following functions:

* Create a plugin project

* Implement the ConfigurableComponent interface

* Use the Kura web UI to modify the bundle’s configuration

* Export a single OSGi bundle (plug-in) <span id="_Prerequisites"
    class="anchor"></span>

### Prerequisites

* Requires Kura development environment set-up ([Setting up Kura
    Development Environment](/java-application-development/development-environment-setup/))

* Implements the use of Kura web user-interface (UI)

## Configurable Component Example

### Create Plug-in

In Eclipse, create a new Plug-in project by selecting **File | New |
Project**. Select **Plug-in Development | Plug-in Project** and click
**Next**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image1.png)

Your screen should display the New Plug-in Project dialog box as shown
in the following screen capture. Enter your project a name, such as
“org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable”. Under Target Platform, ensure
that the **an OSGi framework** option button is selected and set to
**standard** as shown below. You can also (optionally) add projects to a
working set. To continue, click **Next**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image2.png)

In the next New Plug-in Project menu (shown below), change the **Name**
field to something more descriptive, such as “Configurable Component
Example.” Make sure that the Execution Environment list is set to match
the JVM version running on the target device (**JavaSE-1.6** or
**JavaSE-1.7**). To determine the JVM version running on the target
device, log in to its administrative console and enter the command

`java –version`

Also, <u>un</u>check the <b>Generate an activator, a Java class that controls
the plug-in’s life cycle</b> option button. For the purposes of this
example, a single class will be used. An Activator class will not be
created; instead, OSGi Declarative Services will be used to start and
stop the bundle.

Finally, click **Finish**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image3.png)

You should see the new project in the Package Explorer (or Project
Explorer) in Eclipse. Also, you will see the MANIFEST.MF was
automatically opened in the Manifest Editor. An OSGi bundle is a regular
Java .jar file that contains Java code and resources and a custom
Manifest and an Activator. The manifest will be modified in the next
section.

### Add Dependencies to Manifest

First, you will use the Manifest Editor in Eclipse to add some
dependencies. Click the **Dependencies** tab at the bottom of the editor
screen and then click the **Automated Management of Dependencies**
heading to expand it.

![](./images/configurable-application/image4.png)

Under Automated Management of Dependencies, click **Add**. In the Select
a Plug-in field, enter **org.eclipse.osgi.services**. Select the plug-in
name and click **OK**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image5.png)

Note that this operation is very much like adding standalone jars to the
buildpath by including the ‘-cp’ argument to javac. However, in this
case you are telling Eclipse where to find these dependencies the “OSGi
way”, so it is aware of them at compile time.

Click **Add** again and use the same procedure to add the following
dependencies:

* slf4j.api
* org.eclipse.kura.api

You should now see the list of dependencies. Save changes to the
Manifest.

![](./images/configurable-application/image6.png)

### Create Java Class

Now you are ready to start writing a simple Java class. Right-click the
**org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable** project. Select **New |
Class**. Set the Package field to
**org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable**, set the Name field to
**ConfigurableExample**, and then click **Finish**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image7.png)

Write the following code for the new class. You can copy and paste the
code provided below into your newly created Java class file.

```java
package org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable;

public class ConfigurableExample implements ConfigurableComponent {
    private static final Logger s_logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(ConfigurableExample.class);
    private static final String APP_ID = "org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample";
    private Map<String, Object> properties;

    protected void activate(ComponentContext componentContext) {
        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has started!");
    }

    protected void activate(ComponentContext componentContext, Map<String, Object> properties) {
        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has started with config!");
        updated(properties);
    }

    protected void deactivate(ComponentContext componentContext) {
        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has stopped!");
    }

    public void updated(Map<String, Object> properties) {
        this.properties = properties;
        if(properties != null && !properties.isEmpty()) {
            Iterator<Entry<String, Object>> it = properties.entrySet().iterator();
            while (it.hasNext()) {
                Entry<String, Object> entry = it.next();
                s_logger.info("New property - " + entry.getKey() + " = " +
                entry.getValue() + " of type " + entry.getValue().getClass().toString());
            }
        }
    }
}
```

The activate() method is the entry point when the bundle is started.
Note this class has two forms of the activate() method. The second
method (with the “Map<String, Object> properties” parameter) enables a
default configuration to be specified at bundle start time. The
deactivate() method is the entry point when the bundle is stopped. You
have also specified an updated() method. These methods define how the
bundle receives a new configuration from the Kura configuration manager.
Kura handles robust configuration management routines automatically once
you implement the ConfigurableComponent interface and the updated()
method.

### Resolve Dependencies

At this point, there will be errors in your code because of unresolved
imports.

Select the menu **Source | Organize Imports** to resolve these errors.
Because you added dependencies to your dependency list in the Manifest,
you will be prompted to choose one of the following two potential
sources for importing a few classes.

For the “Entry” class, select **java.util.Map.Entry** as shown below and
click **Next**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image8.png)

For the “Logger” class, select **org.slf4j.Logger** as shown below and
click **Finish**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image9.png)

Resolving the imports should clear the errors in the class as shown in
the screen capture that follows. Save the changes to the
ConfigurableExample class.

![](./images/configurable-application/image10.png)

The complete set of code (with import statements) is shown below.

```java
package org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable;

import java.util.Iterator;
import java.util.Map;
import java.util.Map.Entry;
import org.osgi.service.component.ComponentContext;
import org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
import org.eclipse.kura.configuration.ConfigurableComponent;

public class ConfigurableExample implements ConfigurableComponent {

    private static final Logger s_logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(ConfigurableExample.class);
    private static final String APP_ID* = "org.eclipse.kura.configurable.ConfigurableExample";
    private Map<String, Object> properties;

    protected void activate(ComponentContext componentContext) {
      s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has started!");
    }

    protected void activate(ComponentContext componentContext, Map<String, Object> properties) {
        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has started with config!");
        updated(properties);
    }

    protected void deactivate(ComponentContext componentContext) {
        s_logger.info("Bundle " + APP_ID + " has stopped!");
    }

    public void updated(Map<String, Object> properties) {
        this.properties = properties;
        if(properties != null && !properties.isEmpty()) {
            Iterator<Entry<String, Object>> it = properties.entrySet().iterator();
            while(it.hasNext()) {
                Entry<String, Object> entry = it.next();
                s_logger.info("New property - " + entry.getKey() + " = " +
                entry.getValue() + " of type " + entry.getValue().getClass().toString());
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Switch back to the Manifest Editor. Under **Automated Management of
Dependencies**, ensure the **Import-Package** option button is selected.
Click the **add dependencies** link to automatically add packages to the
dependencies list (under **Imported Packages**) based on the “import”
statements in your example code. Save changes to the Manifest again.

![](./images/configurable-application/image11.png)

### Create Component Class

Right-click the example project and select **New | Folder**. Create a
new folder named “OSGI-INF”.

Now, right-click the example project’s “OSGI-INF” folder and select
**New | Other**. From the wizard, select **Plug-in Development |
Component Definition** and click **Next**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image12.png)

Next to the Class field, click **Browse** and type the name of your
newly created class in the Select entries field. In this case, type the
word “Configurable”, and you will see matching items. Select the
**ConfigurableExample** class and click **OK**.

![](./images/configurable-application/image13.png)

In the **Enter or select the parent folder** field, make sure
**“**/OSGI-INF” is at the end of the existing entry
(e.g., org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable/OSGI-INF). Set the **Name**
field equal to the **Class** field as shown below:

![](./images/configurable-application/image14.png)

Click **Finish**.


After the Component class has been created, it will
open in the Workspace. On the Services tab, click the **Add** button
under **Provided Services**. Enter “configurable” and select the
interface “org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable”. This is required for
components that are configurable through the Kura ConfigurationService,
so that they expose a Service.

![](./images/configurable-application/image15.png)

In the Overview tab, the Name and Class fields should already point to
your Java class. Make the following settings:

* Set the Activate field to **activate** and set the Deactivate field
    to **deactivate**. This tells the component where these OSGi
    activation methods are located.

* Set the Configuration Policy to **require**.

* Set the Modified field to **updated**. This tells the component
    which method to call when the configuration is updated.

* Uncheck the box **This component is enabled when started**, then
    check both boxes **This component is enabled when started** and
    **This component is immediately activated**.

Click the **Add Property** button. Enter a property with the name
“service.pid” and value
“org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample” as shown in
the screen capture below.

![](./images/configurable-application/image16.png)

Verify that the completed Overview tab looks like the screen shot shown
below and save the Component class definition file:

![](./images/configurable-application/image17.png)

Check the Source tab of the component.xml file and carefully verify that
each of the property values and tags match what is shown below:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<scr:component xmlns:scr="http://www.osgi.org/xmlns/scr/v1.1.0"
    activate="activate"
    configuration-policy="require"
    deactivate="deactivate"
    enabled="true"
    immediate="true"
    modified="updated"
    name="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample">

    <implementation class="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample"/>
    <service>
        <provide interface="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample"/>
    </service>
    <property name="service.pid" type="String" value="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample"/>
</scr:component>
```

If **Kura 3.0 or newer versions** are used and the "org.eclipse.kura.core.configuration.legacyServiceTracking" system property is set to false or not set, proceed as follows.

After the Component class has been created, it will
open in the Workspace. On the Services tab, click the **Add** button
under **Provided Services**. Enter “configurable” and select the
interface “org.eclipse.kura.configuration.ConfigurableComponent”. This is required for
components that are configurable through the Kura ConfigurationService,
so that they expose a Service.

![](./images/configurable-application/image15_1.png)

In the Overview tab, the Name and Class fields should already point to
your Java class. Make the following settings:

* Set the Activate field to **activate** and set the Deactivate field
    to **deactivate**. This tells the component where these OSGi
    activation methods are located.

* Set the Configuration Policy to **require**.

* Set the Modified field to **updated**. This tells the component
    which method to call when the configuration is updated.

* Uncheck the box **This component is enabled when started**, then
    check both boxes **This component is enabled when started** and
    **This component is immediately activated**.

Click the **Add Property** button. Enter a property with the name
“service.pid” and value
“org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample” as shown in
the screen capture below.

![](./images/configurable-application/image16.png)

Verify that the completed Overview tab looks like the screen shot shown
below and save the Component class definition file:

![](./images/configurable-application/image17.png)

Check the Source tab of the component.xml file and carefully verify that
each of the property values and tags match what is shown below:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<scr:component xmlns:scr="http://www.osgi.org/xmlns/scr/v1.1.0"
    activate="activate"
    configuration-policy="require"
    deactivate="deactivate"
    enabled="true"
    immediate="true"
    modified="updated"
    name="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample">

    <implementation class="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample"/>
    <service>
       <provide interface="org.eclipse.kura.configuration.ConfigurableComponent"/>
    </service>
    <property name="service.pid" type="String" value="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample"/>
</scr:component>
```

### Create the Default Configuration

With the component definition file created, you also need to specify the
configurable parameters of this bundle. This is done using the
“metatype” definition. Right-click the **OSGI-INF** directory for the
example project in the Package Explorer window and select **New |
Folder.** Name the folder “metatype”. Next, right-click the **metatype**
folder and select **New | File**.

Name the file
“org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample.xml” as shown
in the following screen capture:

![](./images/configurable-application/image18.png)

At this point, you have to write the ‘metatype’ file that defines the
parameters, default values, types, etc. Click on the **Source** button
and paste the following XML text into ConfigurableExample.xml for this
example. Save changes to ConfigurableExample.xml.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<MetaData xmlns="http://www.osgi.org/xmlns/metatype/v1.2.0" localization="en_us">
    <OCD id="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample"
        name="ConfigurableExample"
        description="This is a sample metatype file for a simple configurable component">

        <AD id="param1.string"
            name="param1.string"
            type="String"
            cardinality="0"
            required="true"
            default="Some Text"
            description="String configuration parameter"/>

        <AD id="param2.float"
            name="param2.float"
            type="Float"
            cardinality="0"
            required="false"
            default="20.5"
            min="5.0"
            max="40.0"
            description="Float configuration parameter"/>

        <AD id="param3.integer"
            name="param3.integer"
            type="Integer"
            cardinality="0"
            required="true"
            default="2"
            min="1"
            description="Integer configuration parameter"/>
    </OCD>

    <Designate pid="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample">
        <Object ocdref="org.eclipse.kura.example.configurable.ConfigurableExample"/>
    </Designate>
</MetaData>
```

In the MANIFEST.MF of this bundle, you must also make sure the XML file
gets packaged into the bundle when you export the plug-in. Click the
**Build** tab, and in the Binary Build section of the Manifest editor
verify that all the checkboxes for items under META-INF and OSGI-INF are
checked. Save the Manifest after making this change.

![](./images/configurable-application/image19.png)

## Run the Bundle

At this point, you can run the bundle using the emulator in Eclipse
(Linux or OS X only). To do so, expand the **org.eclipse.kura.emulator**
project in the package explorer and browse to src/main/resources. As
appropriate for you platform type, right-click
**Kura_Emulator_*[OS]*.launch** (where “*[OS]*” specifies your
operating system) and select **Run as | KURA_EMULATOR_*[OS]*.launch**.
Doing so will start the Kura emulator and your new bundle in the console
window of Eclipse.

## View the Bundle Configuration in the Local Web UI

With the bundle running, open a browser window on the same computer as
the Eclipse development environment and browse to the Kura web UI at
<http://127.0.0.1:8080>. Once connected to the Kura web UI, a log in
window appears prompting you to enter the Name and Password as shown
below:

![](./images/configurable-application/image20.png)

Enter the appropriate name and password (default is admin/admin) and
click **Log in**. The Kura Admin web UI appears with the
**ConfigurableExample** in the Services area on the left side of the
browser window as shown below:

![](./images/configurable-application/image21.png)

From the Kura Admin web UI, you can change the parameters that are used
by the Kura configuration manager and in turn call the updated() method
of the newly created bundle. To do so, click **ConfigurableExample** and
the configurable component parameters will be displayed as shown below:

![](./images/configurable-application/image22.png)

Make any necessary changes and click the **Apply** button near the top
left of the configuration pane for the modifications to take affect.
Every time a change is made to the configuration, a new snapshot is
generated along with an ID.
